---
layout: post
Title: Money
tags: economics
category: memex
lang: en
---



### Market capitalization-to-GDP ratio

Ratio that measures the total value of the stock market as a percentage of GDP. In simple terms, a lower ratio is bullish and a higher one is bearish.

### Game Theory 



### A.R.P.A

Average Revenue Per Account





### Pending
Invisible Hand - Adam Smith
Orden espontaneo - Hayek
Bull markets  
Benefits vs. income  
Opportunity cost  
Marginal Cost  
How the stock exchange works  
Price Cost structure  
gdh vs gdp  
History of money  
Incoterms  
Inflation  
Interest  
The largest companies in the world  
Market capitalization-to-GDP ratio  
Pension plans  
Budget  
Financial products  
Types of companies  
Producerism  
Reverse Takeover  
Dollar Cost Averaging  
Bear Market  
Inversión  
Blockchain  
Universal Basic Income  
Crowdfunding

Contabilidad financiera + Contabilidad analítica + Análisis de balances y estados financieros

como hacer declaración renta
calendario fiscal

1. Varios flujos de income pasivo. (crear cursos online, ebooks, afiliaciones...)
2. Ganar dinero con hobbies.
3. No gastar, invertir.
4. El dinero no puede estar parado hay que moverlo, invertirlo.
5. Invertir en uno mismo.

El dinero es renovable, el tiempo no es renovable.
The Banker’s Secret: The next time you write your monthly mortgage check, write a second check for the principal-only portion of next month’s payment. In many cases, doing this can allow you to pay off a 30-year mortgage in 15 years.
Analizar mercados, ver cuanto dinero mueven, plantear como conseguir una parte...
Analisis de gastos
Donde invertir: 30% fondo, 30% startups, 40% bonos...?
Invertir vs gastar
Millionaires have 7sources of income
Construir riqueza= reducir deuda(ninguna), ganar más, gastar menos, invertir...
Invertir= You either get money from what you do (job or business) or what you own.
The reality is that there are two categories of income that one should strive for:
1) Leveraged Income
2) Residual Income
All too often people engage in what I call trading hours for dollars, which can be great: You can increase your hourly rate, you can work more hours. However both of those have an upper limit. At some point in time someone is going to resist paying thousands of dollars an hour, if you’re that good, and frankly there are only 24 hours a day and 7 days a week to actually do work. It's impossible to scale beyond those thresholds. The challenge with trading hours for dollars is that you eventually run out of either, and when you stop inserting the hours, you lose your income.
So the high-earning Attorneys, or Consultants, or Whatever make great money while they’re engaged and while they’re at the office, but when they go on vacation, they don’t. The billables aren’t happening.
1) Residual Income Quite simply, Residual Income is money that flows when you aren’t working, from previous activities engaged in. Think of it as owning some intellectual property.
2) Leveraged Income Leveraged Income is where you get to use the activities of others. Business owners use leveraged income, partners in a law firm use leveraged income, etc. They earn income off the efforts of others. The old saying is, “I would sooner have 1% of the effort of 100 people than 100% of the effort of one person.” This way, you have much smoother income and you have much higher likelihood of being able to increase the quantum of income that you get.
As you focus on those categories of income, look for things that have Leveraged and Residual Income from which you can apply your time as a Plan B, while you focus on your Plan A (which is your activity-based income). Keep in mind, also, that one of the hallmarks of a great Plan B is that it should be able to become your Plan A when, and if, you want it to.
